“Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi. You’re my only hope.” — Leia Organa
“I find your lack of faith disturbing.” — Darth Vader
“It’s the ship that made the Kessel run in less than twelve parsecs. I’ve outrun Imperial starships. Not the local bulk cruisers, mind you. I’m talking about the big Corellian ships, now. She’s fast enough for you, old man.” — Han Solo
“The Force will be with you. Always.” — Obi-Wan Kenobi
“Why, you stuck-up, half-witted, scruffy-looking _nerf herder_!” — Leia Organa
“Never tell me the odds!” — Han Solo
“Do. Or do not. There is no try.” — Yoda
“No. _I_ am your father.” — Darth Vader
“When gone am I, the last of the Jedi will you be. The Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned.” — Yoda
“I’ll _never_ turn to the dark side. You’ve failed, your highness. I am a Jedi, like my father before me.” — Luke Skywalker
“Now, young Skywalker, you will die.” — Emperor Palpatine
“Just for once, let me look on you with my own eyes.” — Anakin Skywalker
“There’s always a bigger fish.” — Qui-Gon Jinn
“In time, the suffering of your people will persuade you to see our point of view.” — Nute Gunray
“You can’t stop the change, any more than you can stop the suns from setting.” — Shmi Skywalker
“Fear is the path to the dark side. Fear leads to anger; anger leads to hate; hate leads to _suffering_. I sense much fear in you.” — Yoda
“Well, if droids could _think_, there’d be none of us here, would there?” — Obi-Wan Kenobi
“We must keep our faith in the Republic. The day we stop believing democracy can work is the day we lose it.” — Queen Jamillia
“I’m just a simple man trying to make my way in the universe.” — Jango Fett
“What if I told you that the Republic was now under the control of a Dark Lord of the Sith?” — Count Dooku
“The dark side of the Force is a pathway to many abilities some consider to be unnatural.” — Chancellor Palpatine
“Power! _Unlimited_ power!” — Darth Sidious
“So this is how liberty dies. With thunderous applause.” — Padmé Amidala
“You were my brother, Anakin. I loved you.” — Obi-Wan Kenobi
“To die for one’s people is a great sacrifice. To live for one’s people, an even greater sacrifice. I choose to live for my people.” — Riyo Chuchi (Season One, Episode 15, “Trespass”)
“You are the Chosen One. You have brought balance to this world. Stay on this path, and you will do it again for the galaxy. But beware your heart.” — The Father (Season Three, Episode 17, “Ghosts of Mortis”)
“Remember, my dear Obi-Wan. I’ve loved you always. I always will.” — Duchess Satine Kryze (Season Five, Episode 16, “The Lawless”)
“The Sith killed each other, victims of their own greed. But from the ashes of their destruction, I was the last survivor. I chose to pass my knowledge on to only one. I created a legacy so resilient that now you come before me.” — Darth Bane (Season Six, Episode 13, “Sacrifice”)
“The Sith took everything from me. Ripped me from my mother’s arms, murdered my brother, used me as a weapon, and then cast me aside. Abandoned me. Once, I had power — now I have _nothing_.” — Maul (Season Two, Episode 21, “Twilight of the Apprentice”)
“I am no Jedi.” — Ahsoka Tano (Season Two, Episode 21, “Twilight of the Apprentice”)
“An object cannot make you good or evil. The temptation of power, forbidden knowledge, even the desire to do good can lead some down that path. But only you can change yourself.” — Bendu (Season Three, Episode 1, “Steps into Shadow”)
“If you define yourself by your power to take life, your desire to dominate, to possess, then you have nothing.” — Obi-Wan Kenobi (Season Three, Episode 20, “Twin Suns”)
“The garbage’ll do!” — Rey
“Chewie, we’re home.” — Han Solo
“You know, no matter how much we fought, I’ve always hated watching you leave.” — Leia Organa
“Oh, my dear friend. How I’ve missed you.” — C-3PO
“I’m one with the Force. The Force is with me.” — Chirrut Îmwe
“Every time I walked away from something I wanted to forget, I told myself it was for a cause that I believed in. A cause that was worth it. Without that, we’re lost.” — Cassian Andor
“Jyn, I’ll be there for you. Cassian said I had to.” — K-2SO
“Hope.” — Leia Organa
